A tree is a datastructure that comprises of node

Each tree has a root node
the root node has zero or more child nodes  and so on
The tree can not contain circle, they can be in any order, they may or may not have link back
to their parent nodes

A full node is when every node point to 2 node or zero node i.e no node have one child
A perfect node is when all node is equal, where all node have 2 children and all leat at  the same level

A complete BT is BT in which every level of the tree is fully filled from left to right, other than
the rightmost elements of the last level


Types of Tree

1. Binary Tree
2. Binary Search Tree

A binary tree is a tree in which each node has up to 2 children
A node is called  "leaf" node if it has  no children
A binary Search tree is a type of tree in which every node fits a specific ordering property. all left
descendants <= n < all right descendants. this must be true for each node name

the definition of bst varies, some cannot have duplicate values, in some d duplicate values will be on the right 
or can be on either side . all this are valid, but u should clarify this from the interviewer



BALANCED VS UNBALANCED

BINARY TREE TRAVERSAL
Traversal is a process to visit all the nodes of a tree and may print their values too. 
Because, all nodes are connected via edges (links) we always start from the root (head) node.


In-order Traversal
Pre-order Traversal
Post-order Traversal


In-order Traversal
In this traversal method, the left subtree is visited first, 
then the root and later the right sub-tree. We should always remember that every node may represent a subtree itself.


Pre-order Traversal
In this traversal method, the root node is visited first, 
then the left subtree and finally the right subtree.

Post-order Traversal
In this traversal method, the root node is visited last, hence the name. 
First we traverse the left subtree, then the right subtree and finally the root node.

BINARY HEAPS(MIN-HEAPS and MAX-HEAPS)

A  min-heaps is a complete binary tree.
it has 2 key operation (insert and extraxt_min)


A tree is a connected graph without cycles(a tree is a type of graph)

A GRAPH
A graph is simply a collection of nodes with edges between (some of) them
GRAPH can either be directed or undirected. while directed edges are like a one-way street , undirected edges are like a two-way street.
The graph might consists multiple isolated subgraphs.
The graph can also have cycles(or not). An "acyclic graph" is one without a cycle.
